# EMBR Fires

As climate change continues to damage our environment, the frequency and intensity of climate related distasters will rise. In the past weeks we’ve seen the devastation caused by the fires in the Palisades and Eaton. Earlier in the year, we saw the fires in Jasper destroy the town. Not only do these fires cause an irreparable amount of damage, but they also cause many casualties due to unpreparedness. 

That’s where Embr comes in. The one stop site for fire-related news and information based on your local area. With Embr, you can make sure you’re prepared for the worst. Simply input your location, and see the Embr dashboard come alive with the most recently available information. 

## Inspiration
We were inspired by the recent climate events that have destroyed _ billions _ in property and displaced so many people from their homes. From the hurricanes on the east coast to the Palisades and Eaton fires that have destroyed so much of LA, we wanted to create a _“one-stop-shop”_ containing all the information that would help people prepare for and stay informed of potential wildfires. The **live interactive map** allows users to search up any locations in the world, providing the most _personalized_, _useful_ and _accurate_ updates.

## What it does
Our webapp, **Embr**, generates _real-time_ information on air quality and news.
Once the user inputs their location (or any location!), the relevant data will be generated by various API calls and GenAIs.
Live map with an overlay of updated locations of spreading fires
Live Air quality index and Health Advisories
Live news feed
Nearby shelters, food banks, and hospitals based on location search, generated by GPT-4o
A chatbot using a local LLM to help with your experience
The website is published and working at [embrfires.co](https://embrfires.co/)


## How we built it
The app was built using REACT, Node js, Figma, Express framework, Gpt-4o, blenderbot LLM, fetching data from various online APIs
Live map and location search function: 
[NASA: live fire detection](https://firms.modaps.eosdis.nasa.gov/api/)
[Openweathermap API](https://openweathermap.org/api) 
[Google Maps API](https://developers.google.com/maps) 
Nearest hospitals, food banks, and shelters:
[GPT-4o](https://platform.openai.com/docs/overview) prompting to find closest resources based on the location you input in the live map at the top of the page
Live news feed: [newsAPI](https://newsapi.org/) for fetching most up to date news within 24 hrs
Chatbot: 
Using a small local LLM model called ```'facebook/blenderbot-400M-distill'``` downloaded from HuggingFace
All the weather, fire, windspeed, air quality related data are stored on a MongoDB
Due to device limitations, we could not run a bigger model. With more resources like a more powerful computer or GPU, we can download and run much bigger and more accurate models, with more conversational skills.  

## Challenges we ran into
Working with API's was difficult, particularly working with the keys and .env file, managing environment variables. 
Device capacity for running local LLMs. We tried running a larger LLM for the chatbot and our computer crashed and ran out of memory. So we used a smaller one instead but in the future would implement a larger model with more resources.
Working with multiple collaborators was also difficult as the merges messed us up a couple times. 
Incorporating the front and backend together via Express frameworks, managing endpoints
We spent a lot of time on making sure environment variables are consistent with the most updated .env file. We also had to ensure to not push access tokens online and get them revoked :) 
We have a lot of access tokens due to the many sources/APIs we’re fetching information from, including the HuggingFace LLM model and OpenAI, so managing them and making sure the right dependencies are most up to date for each feature demanded huge efforts

## Accomplishments that we're proud of
Although we had a large number of feature plans set out from the beginning, we managed to finish all of them, despite having difficulties with device and resource limitation. We have a fully functioning website, and are able to make connections to the external APIs, OpenAI, and LLM resources on any devices. 

## What we learned
Running LLMs locally calls for a lot of resources in terms of memory, it is best to do this with GPUs or external servers to avoid computers crashing :> We learned how to use a model from Hugging Face and Meta, fetching user inputs and providing instant feedbacks
When environment variables are not updating, restart-refresh method is the first thing you should try
We learned how to manage multiple endpoints with data fetched from various different API calls, with different credentials and access tokens
Database management with all data gathered into MongoDB for easy and fast access
We learned app design on Figma
We learned how to effectively work on organized branches on Github and resolving merge conflicts when needed

## What's next for Embr Fires
Implementation of the customized action plan feature. 
Creating an overall safety score using a Machine Learning Algorithm. Expanding to natural disasters beyond just fires.
Training and tuning a larger LLM(s) with more resources to serve the chatbots and even more features across the platform
